
The Romantic age gave way to some of the most well-known and innovative compositors since time immemorial. This age followed the Classical era of music which houses the most prestigious of all compositors so the Romantic age compositors had a tough crowd to please, but they still managed to hold up to the standards. This article will describe the Top 5 compositors from the Romantic age and the innovative ideas that came from their music.
1.	Louis-Hector Berlioz

Louis-Hector Berlioz was quite famous while he lived. He wrote his first compositions at the age of twelve. His composition are some of the first compositors for programme music and his compositions are probably some of the best in that genre that we can see and listen to. His most famous compositions are “Symphonie fantastique”, “The coral symphony Roméo et Juliette”, and “La Damnation de Faust”.

2.	Fryderyk Chopin

Fryderyk Chopin was a child prodigy but he did not compose any symphonies, operas, ballet or choral works. Most of his works are Nocturnes, concertos, and shorter dance pieces. He was really successful for his time in most parts of Europe and he performed for high-ranking officials such as the tsar of Russia at the age of 7 and beyond. His most famous piece of music is “Nocturne Op.9 No.2”.

3.	Robert Schumann
Robert Alexander Schumann is thought of as one of the most through romantic composers when it comes to passion and feelings. Schumann was renowned for his piano music, songs and orchestra pieces. He dedicated a lot of his piano music to his wife which was a brilliant pianist. Some of most famous compositions are “Papillons Op.2”, “Abegg Variations Op.1”, “Carnaval Op.9”, and “Études symphoniques Op.13”.
4.	Franz Liszt

Franz Liszt is one of the best pianists through history. Liszt began to compose at the age of 8 and he made his first public appearance at the age of 9. He was a philosopher and philanthropist. He performed his famous overture “New Grand Overture” in front of George IV. “New Grand Overture” became a part of his opera “Don Sanche” which is his most famous piece of music.

5.	Richard Wagner
Wilhelm Richard Wagner was a dramatic composer, poet, and theorist. He is considered to be an arrogant genius. His early years was filled with music. But he did not compose his first piece of music until the age of 20. His most famous compositions are “The flying Dutchman”, “Tannhäuser”, “Lohengrin”, “Tristan und Isolde”, “Parsifal”, and “The ring of the Nibelung”.
